learning_diary.md, before:

# Learning diary

## Chapter 1

- Mostly things I'm already familiar with: git, vs code setup, Prettier
- Haven't used SCSS before, so that was new. I had to install it globally to get the scripts working, while the tutorial installs it locally. Could be a Windows vs. Mac thing.

## Chapter 2

- Emmet is _very_ handy. I now realize I've been writing HTML like a caveman for years.
- Font Awesome now requires to enter an email address and get your "personalized" icons. I didn't want to do that, so I grabbed the old link from the example code.
- SCSS seems cool. I've only used vanilla CSS in my own projects, and SCSS built by others at work. Definitely will use in future projects. Scoping solves so many issues and the mixins seem handy too.

## Chapter 3

- The rotation/translation transitions were new to me.

## Chapter 4

- For loops in SCSS seem handy, good to keep in mind that they exist
- Using `translate3d()` to slide content in from outside the page seems like a neat "party trick". I think animations are cool when used sparingly, but can get annoying if overused.
- I had not worked with media queries before, and I at least understand the basics now. Very important stuff in this day and age.

## Chapter 5

- `grid-template-areas` is super cool. I have used CSS grid before and always found it a bit cumbersome, but this makes so much sense for mapping out the grid layout.
- A sticky footer makes a lot of sense to implement this way. Cool idea.

## Chapter 6

- Mostly familiar things here. I have used flexbox before and tend to prefer it over grid, although they both have their uses.

Commit message:

Created final project, changed folder structure

learning_diary.md, after:

# Learning diary

Following along the chapters of the [Responsive Portfolio Website](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYzHS-n2gqU&list=PLillGF-RfqbYoGoCjKoMOkVznV6aSXKzU&index=1) project.

## Chapter 1

- Mostly things I'm already familiar with: git, VS Code setup, Prettier
- Haven't used SCSS before, so that was new. I had to install it globally to get the scripts working, while the tutorial installs it locally. Could be a Windows vs. Mac thing.

## Chapter 2

- Emmet is _very_ handy. I now realize I've been writing HTML like a caveman for years.
- Font Awesome now requires to enter an email address and get your "personalized" icons. I didn't want to do that, so I grabbed the old link from the example code.
- SCSS seems cool. I've only used vanilla CSS in my own projects, and SCSS built by others at work. Definitely will use in future projects. Scoping solves so many issues and the mixins seem handy too.

## Chapter 3

- The rotation/translation transitions were new to me.

## Chapter 4

- For loops in SCSS seem handy, good to keep in mind that they exist
- Using `translate3d()` to slide content in from outside the page seems like a neat "party trick". I think animations are cool when used sparingly, but can get annoying if overused.
- I had not worked with media queries before, and I at least understand the basics now. Very important stuff in this day and age.

## Chapter 5

- `grid-template-areas` is super cool. I have used CSS grid before and always found it a bit cumbersome, but this makes so much sense for mapping out the grid layout.
- A sticky footer makes a lot of sense to implement this way. Cool idea.

## Chapter 6

- Mostly familiar things for me here. I have used flexbox before and tend to prefer it over grid for most things, although they both have their uses.

## Chapter 7 & building the final project

- I skipped this part initially because it seemed straightforward enough and I wanted to save deployment for the final project.
- For the final version, I took inspiration from the recommended "[Basic Parallax Website With HTML & CSS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JttTcnidSdQ)" tutorial and included learnings from the sample project, such as SCSS and a responsive layout. I also decided to add a navbar that scrolls across the page to navigate between sections, which collapses neatly into a hamburger menu on mobile.
